---
layout: post
title:      "**Failing Upward: How I Went from a Nobody to a Coding Student**"
date:       2020-03-14 01:36:51 +0000
permalink:  failing_upward_how_i_went_from_a_nobody_to_a_coding_student
---


First I feel like I should begin with stating that the title of this blog is mostly tongue-in-cheek. I have a very dry, sarcastic and even dark sense of humor, and people often think I'm being serious when in fact it's quite the opposite.

My childhood was typical enough, I suppose. I was the oldest of three, born into a poor but comfortable family. My mother did the whole single parent thing, working full time during the day and going to school at night. My younger brother had a multitude of illnesses and disorders from the moment he was born, and being the quiet, unassuming and healthy eldest child that I was, I was often left to my own devices. It was around this time, at age 6, that I became aware of computer science and the existence of programming languages.

My uncle had a Nintendo, and I would often watch him play and wonder how it all worked. How did the game know what to do when certain buttons were pushed? How did it know when to spawn certain enemies and traps and such? How did it register player attacks and properly allocate the damage to the correct sprite? I was absolutely fascinated by the device. And when I posed these questions to my uncle, or any adult, they had not the slightest idea. So endlessly curious me decided to find out for myself.

During a sleepover at my cousin's house, I snuck out to the living room, turned on the game system, and spent hours on the game's main menu trying different button combinations to see if I could figure it out. I thought if I knew the right combo, I would unlock some secret section where I could see the bare bones of the device and how it all worked. Ultimately this failed of course, and at six years old I had yet to learn the difference between hardware and software, so I did something quite drastic and took a screwdriver to the thing. Maybe I had been looking in the wrong place, maybe the mechanisms that made it function were laid out all neat and concise inside the grey box? Well needless to say all I found was a confusing mess of wires and weird chippy things, and I got into A LOT of trouble. Yet still my questions remained unanswered. 

Eventually as I got older I learned of the basic inner workings of video game consoles and computers in general, and that solidified my desire to pursue education and eventually a career in this field. Unfortunately in the 90's such classes were quite sparse, and it wasn't until I was 19 that I got my first taste of coding.

My younger brother and I took a summer course at the local community college, one in which we would learn to create our very own video game demo. We programmed our projects in C++, and used Paint and a simple rendering program to create the visuals.  I was obsessed with Kingdom Hearts at the time, so I used sound files and music from that property. It was a very simple 2D top-down adventure RPG type game, a sort of homage to the game that first piqued my interest in this field, Zelda.

I worked feverishly on my project for several weeks.I went far beyond what the instructor taught us, googling everything, asking questions in tech chatrooms and blogs and the like. When I turned in my final, the instructor was apparently floored by what he had just played. He stated that I had made the first fully functional RPG he had ever seen. He then pointed out that every other student he'd had always created a Space Invaders style demo, and indeed all my other classmates had.  This solidified my desire to enter the world of tech and code video games.

But alas, it was not to be. At least not for a long while. Every family has a certain dynamic, everyone has a role, and mine were caretaker and peacekeeper. My mother had type 1 diabetes, and I was always vigilant for signs of an insulin reaction. I apparently called the ambulance for the first time at age two, when she had a horrible reaction and fell. Her blood sugar levels were so volatile for so long that she could not live alone. So even after my brother moved out at 18, I stayed to take care of her. And after she stabalized and her new husband moved in, I went and stayed with my grandmother to help her care for my grandfather, who had dementia and stage 4 melanoma. After he passed, I moved in with a chronically ill partner and cared for them as well. I was always taking care of someone, always putting my dreams on hold for someone else. But two years ago, after I left my chronically ill and abusive partner, I met a wonderful woman who helped me see what I had done with my life. How I had basically lived my 32 years on this earth for everyone else, but never for me. So with her help and guidance, I learned that it was ok to say no and to take up space, to prioritize my own needs and desires for once. At this point I remembered what I originally wanted to do with my life, learn to code in every language possible. A lofty goal to be sure, but one my partner encouraged me to pursue.

I learned of the Flatiron Bootcamp through a friend who was employed at WeWork. I had been looking at several schools, but Flatiron seemed like the best fit. But right before I was going to apply, I received some troublesome news from my psychiatrist. I had always struggled with mental illness, anxiety and depression mostly. But after I underwent a rigorous screening process, my doctor concluded that I was on the Autism spectrum. Now this diagnosis in and of itself was not terribly worrisome, indeed it was a relief to finally have an answer for why I had always exhibited certain behaviors and such. However my doctor cautioned me against applying for higher education, because my brain does not work the same way as a neurotypical person's, thus I would severely struggle with learning. This absolutely devastated me, and I wallowed in self pity for the better part of a year. But after months of coaxing from my partner and mother and several meetings with an Autism support group, I decided that I would not allow these issues to hold me back. Yes I had an anxiety disorder and depression and Borderline Personality Disorder and Autism, but dammit I refused to allow mental illness to impede my life. 

So here I am, at age 34, finally realizing the dream I've had since I was a small child. And although I still struggle with mental illness and being neurodivergent, I am determined to succeed. Better late than never, right?
